                          TABLE OF CONTENTS

TABLE OF CONTENTS....................................................................................................................... 1

DEFINITIONS............................................................................................................................. 3

WASTE COLLECTION DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL CHECKLIST .................................................................................... 11

1.0 INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................................... 14
    1.1 General Information ........................................................................................................... 14
    1.2 Eligibility for Waste Collection .............................................................................................. 14
    1.3 Request to Commence Waste Collection Service .................................................................................. 15

2.0 GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS ....................................................................................................... 16

3.0 SINGLE DETACHED DWELLINGS, SEMI-DETACHED DWELLINGS, TOWNHOUSES AND MULTI-RESIDENTAL COMPLEXES UP TO SIX DWELLING UNITS ............ 16

4.0 MULTI-RESIDENTIAL COMPLEXES WITH MORE THAN SIX DWELLING UNITS AND STACKED TOWNHOUSES ...............................................17
    4.1 Design Requirements ........................................................................................................... 17
        4.1.1 Garbage and Recycling Receptacle Requirements............................................................................ 18
        4.1.2 Concealed Collection Point Requirements.................................................................................. 19
        4.1.3 Waste Storage Room Requirements.......................................................................................... 20
    4.2 Specific Requirements for Stacked Townhouses .................................................................................. 20

5.0 MIXED USE BUILDINGS ............................................................................................................... 21

6.0 BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREAS ........................................................................................................ 22

7.0 INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS ........................................................................................................ 23
    7.1 Long-Term Care Institutions ................................................................................................... 23
    7.2 Schools ....................................................................................................................... 24
    7.3 Places of Worship ............................................................................................................. 24

APPENDIX 1: WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE ILLUSTRATIONS .............................................................................. 26
APPENDIX 2: CUL-DE-SAC SPECIFICATIONS ........................................................................................... 30
APPENDIX 3: “T” - TURNAROUND SPECIFICATIONS ..................................................................................... 31
APPENDIX 4: INDOOR WASTE COLLECTION POINT SPECIFICATIONS ........................................................................ 32
APPENDIX 5: CONCEALED COLLECTION POINT SPECIFICATIONS ........................................................................... 33
APPENDIX 6: GARBAGE AND RECYCLING RECEPTACLE DIMENSIONS ......................................................................... 34
APPENDIX 7: FRONT-END GARBAGE AND RECYCLING BINS ................................................................................ 35
APPENDIX 8: CART DIMENSIONS ..................................................................................................... 36
APPENDIX 9: WASTE COLLECTION POINT EXAMPLES ..................................................................................... 37
APPENDIX 10: ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND RELEASE FORM FOR PRIVATE PROPERTY WASTE COLLECTION ............................................. 38
APPENDIX 12: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA BOUNDARIES ............................................................................... 44
APPENDIX 12: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA BOUNDARIES ............................................................................... 45
APPENDIX 12: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA BOUNDARIES ............................................................................... 46
APPENDIX 12: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA BOUNDARIES ............................................................................... 47
APPENDIX 12: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA BOUNDARIES ............................................................................... 48
APPENDIX 12: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA BOUNDARIES ............................................................................... 49
APPENDIX 13: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A STACKED TOWNHOUSE SITE PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS ........................... 50
APPENDIX 13: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A STACKED TOWNHOUSE SITE PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS ........................... 51
APPENDIX 14: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A MULTI-RESIDENTIAL SITE PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS ........................... 52
APPENDIX 15: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A MULTI-RESIDENTIAL SITE PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE
             COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS (INDOOR WASTE STORAGE ROOM AND INDOOR COLLECTION POINT) .................................... 53
APPENDIX 15: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A MULTI-RESIDENTIAL SITE PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE
             COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS (INDOOR WASTE STORAGE ROOM AND INDOOR COLLECTION POINT) .................................... 54
APPENDIX 16: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A MULTI-RESIDENTIAL SITE PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE 
             COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS (INDOOR WASTE STORAGE ROOM AND CONCEALED COLLECTION POINT) ................................. 55

                                                     



                                                 REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                       STANDARDS MANUAL

Page #2

DEFINITIONS
The definitions set out below apply to this manual and are related to the Region of Peel’s Waste
Collection By-law Number 35-2015.

Agencies, Boards, Commissions and Departments (ABCDs): the buildings and facilities occupied
by the Region and Area Municipalities including, but not limited to, City/Town Halls, recreation
centres and libraries, etc., as well as those buildings occupied by the local conservation authorities,
which receive Waste Collection as provided by the Region.
Area Municipality(ies): the municipality of the City of Mississauga, the City of Brampton, or the
Town of Caledon.
Automated Collection Method: the collection of Waste or Waste from Carts using a Fully-Automated
or Semi-Automated Waste Collection system and does not include the manual emptying of Carts.
Biomedical Waste: human anatomical Waste, animal Waste, non-anatomical Waste, other Waste and
cytotoxic Waste that is generated by:
a) human health care and residential facilities; or
b) animal health care facilities; or
c) medical research and teaching establishments; or
d) veterinary research and teaching establishments,
and includes, but is not limited to, tissue, organs, body parts, blood and blood products, body fluids,
human or animal cultures, stocks or specimens, live or attenuated viruses, cell lines, sharps and broken
glass.
Biweekly: the collection of specified Waste material Set-out at the Curbside for collection once every
two weeks on the Scheduled Collection Days.
Bulky Item: a household item, other than a White Good, which is larger than 1 metre (39 inches) in
any one dimension or weighs in excess of 20 kilograms (44 pounds), including furniture of whatever
size and weight as may be determined by the Commissioner of Public Works, and which also
includes, but is not limited to, the items listed in Schedule “A” of the Waste Collection By-law.









                                       REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                          DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #3

Business Improvement Area (BIA): an area designated by municipal by-law under the Municipal
Act, 2001 S.O. 2001, c.25, or any successor legislation, by the City of Mississauga, the City of
Brampton, or the Town of Caledon, and which includes Dwelling Units and places of business as set
out in the areas defined in Appendix 12 of this manual and Schedule “B” of the Waste Collection Bylaw.
Cart: a container, approved by the Commissioner of Public Works, that is provided to Occupants by
the Region and is designated for Fully-Automated or Semi-Automated Waste Collection and that
remains the property of the Region throughout the life of the Cart.
Collection Point: a location designated by the Commissioner of Public Works for the Set-out and
collection of Bulky Items, Garbage, Source Separated Organics, Recyclable Materials, White Goods
and Yard Waste, and which includes:
a) a location abutting the property and as close as possible to the edge of the roadway,
without obstructing the roadway or sidewalk and not extending beyond the frontage of the
property;
b) a Common Collection Area;
c) a Concealed Collection Point; and
d) an Indoor Collection Point.
Commercial: a property used for retail or service establishments, commercial recreational purposes,
entertainment purposes or offices, and which includes non-residential property and non-Institutional
property.
Commissioner: the Commissioner of Public Works for The Regional Municipality of Peel, or his or
her designate, authorized to act on his or her behalf.
Common Collection Area: a Collection Point shared by multiple occupants.
Compactor: an appliance used to reduce the volume of Waste by applying force.
Concealed Collection Point: a Collection Point with a permanent three-sided structure without a roof
for the purpose of concealing externally-stored Waste, Front-End Bins, Carts and Bulky Items.
Contractor: any individual, firm, company or corporation, and the employees of any such individual,
firm, company or corporation, with whom the Region has entered into an agreement for the collection
of Waste.
Council: the Council of The Regional Municipality of Peel.
Curbside Collection: the collection of Waste Set-out in a Garbage Cart, Recycling Cart or an
Organics Cart from a Collection Point.
Developer: a person who undertakes a Development.
Development: the construction, erection or placing of one or more buildings or structures on land, or
the making of an addition or alteration to a building or structure that has the effect of substantially
increasing the size or usability thereof, or the laying out and establishment of a Commercial parking lot
or of sites for the location of three or more trailers as defined in subsection 164 (4) of the Municipal
Act, 2001.






                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #4

Dwelling Unit: a place of residence designed, or intended, for habitation by one or more persons with
its own culinary and sanitary facility(ies), which are provided for the exclusive use of the person or
persons who reside therein and includes Live-Work Units.
Fiveplexes: a structure of five co-joined Dwelling Units.
Fourplexes: a structure of four co-joined Dwelling Units.
Front-End Bin(s):
a) a fully covered, water-tight metal container with a lid capable of being locked to the
   body of the container and with a capacity of no less than 1.5 cubic metres (2 cubic
   yards) and no greater than 4.5 cubic metres (6 cubic yards), which is compatible with
   the Region’s Contractors’ Waste Front-End Collection vehicles; or
b) such other containers, in good working order as determined by the Commissioner to
   be acceptable for setting out Recyclable Materials or Garbage.
   
Front-End Collection: the collection of Waste by means of a front-end Waste Collection Vehicle.
Fully-Automated Waste Collection: the use of a Waste Collection Vehicle that utilizes an automated
mechanism to collect and dump Carts, thereby eliminating the need to manually lift and dump the
contents of a Cart into a Waste Collection Vehicle.
Garbage: Waste other than Recyclable Materials, Source Separated Organics, Hazardous Waste,
White Goods, Bulky Items, Yard Waste and Non-Complying Waste.
Garbage Cart: a reusable Cart with a grey lid supplied by, and the property of, the Region for the
Biweekly Waste Collection of Garbage as described below:
a) a small wheeled 120 litre (29 Imperial gallon) Cart;
b) a medium wheeled 240 litre (54 Imperial gallon) Cart;
c) a large wheeled 360 litre (79 Imperial gallon) Cart; or
d) such other volume capacity Cart as determined by the Commissioner as acceptable.

Garbage Receptacle:
a) a Garbage Cart;
b) Front-End Bins or any other containers designated by the Commissioner for the
   collection of Garbage at Multi-Residential Complexes or in Business Improvement Areas; or
c) a non-returnable plastic bag with:
    1. a width no greater than 66 centimetres (26 inches);
    2. a height no greater than 90 centimetres (36 inches);
    3. the capability of being securely closed or tied when filled;
    4. strength to support, without tearing, a weight of no more than 20
       kilograms (44 pounds) when lifted;
    5. a width no smaller than 30 centimetres (12 inches); and
    6. a height no smaller than 30 centimetres (12 inches);
       and does not include a Recycling Cart, Yard Waste Receptacle or a Source Separated Organics Cart.

Hazardous Waste: has the meaning attributed to it in R.R.O, 1990 Regulation 347, as amended.







                                        REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                               STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #5

HOME HEALTH CARE WASTE: the item referred to in Schedule “C” in the Region’s Waste Collection ByLaw and used for personal home health care.
Indoor Collection Point: a Collection Point located within or below a structure that has been
approved by the Commissioner of Public Works for the Set-out and collection of Bulky Items,
Garbage, Source Separated Organics, Recyclable Materials, White Goods and Yard Waste.
Industrial: those properties and Developments zoned as industrial.
Industrial or Commercial Waste: Waste originating from:
a)
any business;
b)
an enterprise or activity involving warehousing, storage or Industrial, manufacturing
or Commercial processes or operations;
c) research or experimental enterprise or activity;
d) an enterprise or activity where goods or materials are kept for sale, or offered for sale, to the general public;
e) hotels or motels;
f) clinics that provide medical, cosmetics surgery, dental or veterinary diagnosis or treatment;
g) laboratories or hospitals; or
h) construction or demolition projects, or large home renovations.

Institution(al): Developments on properties with in-effect Institutional zoning designation.
Institutional Waste: includes, but is not limited to, Waste generated in a building that is a Non-Profit
Community Agency, such as a seniors’ home, group home, Licenced Lodging House, Place of
Worship, day care, community shelter, school, or community college and university residence,
Regional or Area Municipality property, or the property of the Crown in Right of Ontario or the Crown
in Right of Canada or any other emanations thereof, and any other facilities as designated by the
Commissioner.

Jockeying of Front-End Bins: manually positioning one Front-End Bin at a time for a Waste
Collection Vehicle to dump.
Licensed Lodging House: a house or building, or portion of these, approved by a municipality, where
four or more people are living and where the occupants do not have exclusive access to kitchen
facilities and all habitable areas of the building, and does not include a hotel, hospital, nursing home,
home for the young or the aged, or an Institution of a hotel, hospital or home.
Litter: debris, refuse, or Waste discarded outside the regular Collection Point or lying scattered about
the area.
Live-Work Unit: a Dwelling Unit used partly for residential purposes and partly for Commercial or
Institutional activities.
Local Board: a local board as defined in the Municipal Affairs Act, R.S.O 1990, c. M.46, or any
successor legislation insofar as its authority may be exercised by the Region.
Long-Term Care Institution: a nursing home, convalescent home, skilled nursing facility, care home,
rest home or intermediate care that provides a type of residential care.








                                             REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                    STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #6

Mixed Use Building: a building or structure comprised of a combination of Dwelling Units, and/or
Live-Work Units and/or Commercial and Institutional establishments.
Multi-Residential Complex: apartment building, condominium complex, complex, co-op complex,
Licensed Lodging House or other similar residential complex containing more than six (6) selfcontained Dwelling Units, or any combination thereof.
Municipal Road: a road allowance, street, lane or thoroughfare that is maintained by the Region or an
Area Municipality.
Non-Complying Waste: the items referred to as Non-Complying Waste in Schedule “E” of the
Region’s Waste Collection By-law.
Non-Profit Community Agency: a non-profit organization that is classified as such by the Canada
Revenue Agency, or its successor, that is involved in programs that assist or improve the quality of life
in the Region and that carries out activities without pecuniary gain that perform a function of
benevolence, vocational training or charity; or that organizes community activities such as agricultural
fairs, parades, festivals and/or celebrations that allow for unrestricted public access, such as Canada
Day picnics, Multi-Cultural Day celebrations and Communities in Bloom events.
Non-Residential Area: properties with in-effect zoning permitting uses other than residential uses.

Occupier(ant): an occupier as defined in the Occupiers' Liability Act, R.S.O. 1990, c.O.2, and
includes:
a) a person who is in physical possession of a premise; or
b) a person who has responsibility for, and control over, the condition of a premise or the
   activities there carried on, or control over persons allowed to enter the premise, and
   includes, but is not limited to, property managers, property superintendents, facility
   custodians and tenants;
   despite the fact that there is more than one Occupant of the same premise.

Owner: a person who is an owner of any land or building, which includes, but is not limited to, Developers.
Place of Worship: a Development where individuals or groups of people gather to perform acts of
devotion, veneration or religious study and which includes temples, churches and mosques.
Private Property: any land or building that is privately owned, and is not owned by an Area
Municipality, a Local Board, the Region, or the Crown in Right of Ontario, the Crown in Right of
Canada, or any emanations thereof, unless it is leased to a person or corporation not listed above.
Private Road: any road that is not owned or maintained by an Area Municipality, a local board, the
Region, or the Crown in Right of Ontario, the Crown in Right of Canada or any emanations thereof.
Public Property: any land or building that is owned by an Area Municipality, a local board, the
Region, or the Crown in Right of Ontario, the Crown in Right of Canada or any emanations thereof.
Recycling Cart: a reusable Cart with a blue lid supplied by, and the property of, the Region for the
Biweekly Waste Collection of Recyclable Materials as described below:
a) a small wheeled 120 litre (29 Imperial gallon) Cart;
b) a medium wheeled 240 litre (54 Imperial gallon) Cart;







                                              REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                    STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #7

c) a large wheeled 360 litre (79 Imperial gallon) Cart; or
   such other volume capacity Cart as determined by the Commissioner as acceptable.

Recyclable Materials: any Waste or material, designated by the Commissioner for the Region’s
recycling program, and which includes, but is not limited to, the items referred to in Schedule “G” of
the Waste Collection By-law and any other Waste identified as recyclable by the Region as determined
by the Commissioner.
Recycling Receptacle:
a) a Recycling Cart;
b) Front-End Bin; or
c) a clear or transparent blue or colourless plastic bag no larger than 76.2 centimetres (30
inches) wide and 90 centimetres (36 inches) in length and capable of supporting a weight
of no more than 20 kilograms (44 pounds).
Region: the Regional Municipality of Peel.
Residential Area: land with in-effect residential zoning designation.
Residential Unit: a self-contained residential Dwelling Unit permitted by law that is a:
a) single-detached residence;
b) semi-detached residence;
c) unit in a Duplex, Triplex, Fourplex, Fiveplex Or Sixplex; or
d) unit in an apartment building, condominium complex, Townhouse complex, co-op
   complex, licensed lodging house or other similar residential complex;
   but does not include a hotel, motel, or a restaurant.


Residential Waste: Waste that is discarded for collection that originates from a Residential Unit or
unit in a Multi-Residential Complex and includes, but is not limited to, Bulky Items, White Goods,
Source Separated Organics, Garbage, Wood Waste, Yard Waste and Recyclable Material.
Scheduled Collection Day: a day of residential, BIA and ABCD Waste Collection for a particular
geographical area within the Region, as determined by the Commissioner.
Set-out: to place, cause or permit the placement of Waste at a Collection Point on Private Property or
Public Property for the purpose of collection.
Semi-Automated Waste Collection: a method of collecting Recyclable Materials, Garbage, or Source
Separated Organics using a Garbage, Recycling or Source Separated Organics Cart equipped with
wheels, which is compatible with the equipment used by the Region’s Contractor for the provision of
Waste Collection where the operator may leave the vehicle to place Waste Collection receptacles for
mechanical lifting into a Waste Collection Vehicle.
Semi-Detached Dwelling: a pair of Dwelling Units joined side-by-side or back-to-back, sharing a
common wall.
Single-Detached Dwelling: a Dwelling Unit not physically attached to other structures.
Site Plan: the process by which Area Municipalities consider the design and technical aspects of a
proposed Development and examine the proposal to ensure compliance with all municipal land use







                                                REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                       STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #8

requirements, standards and objectives, including the requirements of the Waste Collection By-law and
this manual.
Sixplexes: a structure of six co-joined Dwelling Units.
Small Business(es): an establishment used for Commercial, Retail, Recreational, Entertainment , or
Office purposes of less than 500 square metres in area.
Source Separated Organics (SSO): materials of plant or animal origin including kitchen food waste
and any other organic material collected separately for the purpose of processing, including but not
limited to composting into a beneficial use product, as determined by the Commissioner and identified
in Schedule “F” of the Waste Collection By-law.
Source Separated Organics Cart:
a) a reusable container with the capacity of 100 litres (26 imperial gallons) supplied by,
   and the property of, the Region for the weekly collection of Source Separated Organics;
b) a container, which is a Compostable Bag, that is purchased by the Occupier; or
c) such other container determined by the Commissioner as acceptable for Set-out of Source Separated Organics for collection.

Stacked Townhouses: a Townhouse Development containing two (2) to five (5) self-contained
Dwelling Units, built upon one another.
Triplexes: a structure of three co-joined Dwellings Units.
Townhouse: a row of co-joined Dwelling Units.
T-turnaround: a “T”-shaped area that allows Waste Collection Vehicles to reverse through a threepoint turn (See Appendix 3).
Turning Radius: the minimum radius required for a Waste Collection Vehicle to turn around (See

Appendix 1).
Waste: anything discarded from any source, including, but not limited to, Garbage, Recyclable
Materials, Source Separated Organics, White Goods, Bulky Items and Yard Waste, and which does not
include Hazardous Waste or Non-Complying Waste.
Waste Collection: the act of collecting Waste Set-out at a Collection Point using Front-End
Collection, Semi-Automated Waste Collection or Fully-Automated Waste Collection.
Waste Collection By-law: the ordinance (By-law Number 35-2015) of the Regional Municipality of
Peel enacted to regulate the collection of Waste in the Cities of Brampton and Mississauga and the
Town of Caledon.
Waste Collection Vehicle: a vehicle specially designed to collect Waste.
Waste Management Staff: an employee(s) of the Regional Municipality of Peel’s Waste
Management Division.



                                              REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                     STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #9

Waste Storage Room: an indoor room within a Multi-Residential Complex for the purpose of storing
Bulky Items, Front-End Bins and Carts.
White Goods: the items referred to as White Goods in Schedule “H” of the Waste Collection By-law
and any other Waste material identified as White Goods by the Region as determined by the
Commissioner.

Wood Waste: the items referred to as Wood Waste in Schedule “I” of the Waste Collection By-law,
and any other Waste material identified as Wood Waste by the Region as determined by the
Commissioner.
Yard Waste: the items referred to as Yard Waste in Schedule “J” of the Waste Collection By-law and
any other Waste material identified as Yard Waste by the Region as determined by the Commissioner.
Yard Waste Receptacle:
a) a labelled, open, and reusable rigid container having:
   1. rigid handles that are attached or moulded to the exterior of the container;
   2. a capacity of less than 125 litres (27.5 Imperial gallons);
   3. an external width no greater than 60 centimetres (24 inches);
   4. an external height no greater than 95 centimetres (38 inches);
   5. the top of the container that is larger than the bottom of the container; and
   6. the capability of supporting a weight of 20 kilograms (44 pounds); or

b) a kraft paper bag specifically designed for Yard Waste and with:
   1. a width no greater than 66 centimetres (26 inches);
   2. a height no greater than 90 centimetres (35 inches);
   3. the capability to be securely closed or tied when filled; and
   4. the durability to support, without tearing, a weight of 20 kilograms (44 pounds) when lifted; or

c) a re-usable bushel basket capable of supporting 20 kilograms (44 pounds) when lifted;

d) such other container designated by the Commissioner as acceptable to Set-out Yard Waste for collection.




                                             REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                     STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #10

WASTE COLLECTION DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL CHECKLIST
Ensure that the following are clearly identified on Site Plan drawings:
Site Access and Exit

Adequate Turning Radius – Turns must have a minimum of 13 metres Turning Radius for Waste Collection
Vehicle. Turning Radius for all turns must be labelled on Site Plan.

Adequate roadway width – All roads must be a minimum of 6 metres to allow unrestricted movement of Waste

Collection Vehicles even with vehicles parked on both sides and must be designed to support a minimum of 35
tonnes, the weight of a fully loaded Waste Collection Vehicle.
Grading – The maximum grade along the Waste Collection Vehicle access route is 8 per cent.
Adequate head-on approach – The head-on approach for Waste Collection Vehicles to access the Collection
Point is a minimum of 18 metres.

Safe and reasonable access – The Waste configuration avoids the Waste Collection Vehicle to reverse in excess
of 15 metres, turn while reversing, or to reverse onto a municipal roadway.
Road layouts permit forward motion – Road layouts are designed to permit a Waste Collection Vehicle to
drive forward without reversing for Waste Collection. Where the requirement for a road layout permitting
forward movement of a Waste Collection Vehicle cannot be met, a Cul-de-sac or a T-turnaround is required in
accordance with the specifications shown in Appendices 2 and 3, respectively.
Overhead clearance at the Collection Point – A minimum of 7.5 metres from the concrete pad is provided at
the Collection Point. The clear height of 7.5 metres is free of obstructions such as sprinkler systems, ducts, wires,
trees, or balconies.

Overhead clearance outside of the Collection Point – Outside the Collection Point, a clear height of 4.4 metres
from the top of the access road, along the Waste Collection Vehicle access and egress route is provided. The
clear height of 4.4 metres is free of obstructions such as sprinkler systems, ducts, wires, trees or balconies.
Certified letter – If a Waste Collection Vehicle is required to drive onto or over a supported structure (such as
an air grate, transformer cover, parkade or underground parking garage), the Region must be provided with a
letter certified by a professional engineer (licensed by Professional Engineers Ontario) that the structure can
safely support a fully loaded Waste Collection Vehicle weighing 35 tonnes.

Curbside Waste Collection
 Accessible Collection Point – The Collection Point is to be as close as possible to the travelled portion of the

roadway directly adjacent to the Private Property of the unit Owner, accessible to the Waste Collection Vehicle
and free of obstructions such as parked cars.

Adequate Collection Point dimensions – The Collection Point along the curb, adjacent to the driveway must be
at least 3 square metres or 32 square feet per unit in order to provide sufficient space for the placement of
Garbage, Recycling, Source Separated Organics and Yard Waste Receptacles (See Appendix 8 for dimensions).

Front-End Bins and Carts Entitlement
Adequate number of Front-End Bins, and/or Carts has been proposed – For Multi-Residential Complexes

and Stacked Townhouses see Section 4, for BIAs see Section 6, and for Institutional Developments see Section
7. Adequate labelling – Quantity, type and size of Garbage Receptacles and Recycling Receptacles to be used.




                                               REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                     STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #11

Collection Point Requirements
Concealed Collection Point – A 3- metre clearance at the opening is required for a single-bin. An opening of 6
metres is required for a Concealed Collection Point for two Front-End Bins with two gates. If four gates are
proposed on a Concealed Collection Point, then an opening of 8-metres is required.
Storage for Bulky Items – The storage space provided for Bulky Items is 10 cubic metres for each MultiResidential Complex. The Concealed Collection Point for Bulky Items can be separate from the Concealed
Collection Point for Front-End Bins.
Concealed Collection Point gates – A locakable gate is required. The gates on the Concealed Collection Point
must swing open to a minimum of 135 degrees and must be capable of being secured in an open position. Sliding
gates are also permitted.

Walking distance to Collection Point and/or Waste Storage Room – For Multi-Residential Complexes and
Stacked Townhouses the maximum walking distance for Owners to a Collection Point or Waste Storage Room is
100 metres.

Adequate Internal Set-out Area surface and strength – The surface of the Collection Point must be a solid
and level (Max. 2% slope) concrete surface. The concrete pad must extend a minimum of 1.5 meters in length
outside the opening of the Concealed Collection point.
Concealed Collection Point bollards – Bollards or a concrete curb must also be installed at the rear of the
Concealed Collection Point to protect it from damage when Front-End Bins are picked up, or returned in place,
by the Waste Collection Vehicle.

Adequate internal storage space – Internal Waste Storage Rooms must be a minimum of 10 square metres for
the storage of Bulky Items for each Multi-Residential Complex.
Waste Storage Room and Collection Points for Mixed Use Buildings – must satisfy the Waste Storage Room
and Collection Point requirements for Multi-Residential Complexes and Stacked Townhouses of the same
number Dwelling Units as set out in Sections 4.1.1 - 4.2. If the Mixed Use Building is within a BIA and includes
a Small Business(es) requesting Region of Peel Waste Collection services, the Waste Management Division must
be consulted.

Overhead clearance in the Collection Point – Overhead clearance of 7.5 metres from obstructions such as
overhead utility wires, trees or balconies must be provided in the Collection Point.
Overhead clearance outside of the Collection Point – Overhead clearance of 4.4 metres from obstructions such
as overhead utility wires, trees or balconies must be provided outside of the Collection Point.

Indoor Collection Point width – Must be a minimum width of 6 metres for the storage of multiple Front-End
Bins.

Indoor Collection Point access – There must be an unobstructed distance of a minimum of 18 metres to enable
to Waste Collection Vehicle to wholly enter the Indoor Collection Point.

Waste Storage Room Requirements

Waste Storage Room area – A Waste Storage Room must be of sufficient area to accommodate the required
number of Front-End Bins and/or Recycling Carts. It must also provide sufficient area to store Bulky Items.

Waste Storage Room accessibility – The Waste Storage Room must be accessible to occupants.
Specific Requirements for Stacked Townhouses

Walking distance – The maximum walking distance from a Dwelling Unit to the closest Concealed Collection
Point must be less than 100 metres.




                                          REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #12

Other
 Scalable Drawing - A scale must be provided on the Site Plan
 Dimensions – The dimensions on the Site Plan must be relevant to the requirements of this manual.








                                         REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #13

1.0 INTRODUCTION

  1.1 General Information

The Region provides Waste Collection services in accordance with the Region of Peel’s Waste
Collection By-law. The Region provides Waste Collection services to Residential Units, some
Institutions, and Small Businesses located within Business Improvement Areas (BIAs). Eligibility for
the Region’s Waste Collection services requires compliance with the requirements set out in this
manual.

The requirements of this manual do not supersede the Ontario Building Code (OBC), nor do they
exempt any aspect of a development from the requirements of the OBC.
The Region will not provide Waste Collection services to Industrial, Commercial and Institutional
establishments, other than those located within BIAs. For these establishments the Owner is to arrange
for a private Waste Collection company to collect Waste.

Please refer to the Waste Collection Design Standards Manual Checklist Section prior to submitting
Site Plans to the Area Municipalities for review. For clarification of the terms used in this manual,
Please contact the Waste Management Division by Electronic mail at ZZGWasteCollectionDesignStandardsInquiries@peelregion.ca for clarification of the requirements set out in this manual and/or to arrange a pre-Site Plan submission consultation.
The requirements set out in this manual support the Region’s 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle)
diversion goals. Subsequent versions of this manual will include additional or modified design
requirements to complement new diversion programs. A possible program change being considered at
this time by the Region is the collection of SSO from Multi-Residential Complexes with more than six
Dwelling Units and from Stacked Townhouses. A future version of this manual may require these
Development types to include design features for SSO diversion.
Effective March 11, 2016, this manual replaces the Waste Collection Design Standards Manual
approved as Council Resolution 2007-799.

  1.2 Eligibility for Waste Collection

This Waste Collection Design Standards Manual sets out the features that must be incorporated into
the design of various categories of Developments and the features set forth within this manual must be
met in order for the Region to provide collection of Garbage, Recyclable Materials, Bulky Items,
Source Separated Organics and Yard Waste.
The role of the Region of Peel’s Waste Management Division within the land Development process is
to review all Development and redevelopment applications for compliance with this manual and
provide feedback on Development applications to Area Municipalities.
It should be noted that the Region reserves the right to enact additional requirements during a detailed
review of Development and redevelopment applications. It should also be noted that this manual is to






                                        REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #14

be used in conjunction with, not in place of, all applicable building codes, the Waste Collection By-law
and any processes required by the Planning Act.
All Developments which include Residential Units must comply with the requirements of this manual
in order to receive Waste Collection services by the Region. Private Waste Collection for
Developments that include Residential Units will not be permitted unless approved by Council.
Developers must submit a letter addressed to the Commissioner of Public Works Office (10 Peel
Centre Drive, Brampton Ontario, L6T 4B9, Suite A, 5th Floor), requesting to use a private Waste
Collection company for their Development. If private Waste Collection is approved, the Development
cannot re-apply to the Region to receive Waste Collection unless modifications are made to the
Development to meet the requirements of this manual or unless Council approves such service.
Failure to comply with the requirements set out in this manual, and any additional requirements
imposed by the Commissioner, will result in a Site Plan not being approved or suspension of
Waste Collections services until modifications are made to demonstrate compliance with the
requirements set out in this manual, or as otherwise required by the Commissioner.

1.3 Request to Commence Waste Collection Service

For Developments located on a Private Road, the Developer is responsible for Waste Collection and
disposal until 90 per cent occupancy is achieved.
If the Waste Collection Vehicle is required to drive onto, or over, a supported structure (such as an air
grate, transformer cover or underground parking garage) within a Development, the Region must be
provided with a letter from a professional engineer (licensed by Professional Engineers Ontario),
certifying that the structure can safely support a fully loaded Waste Collection Vehicle weighing 35
tonnes.

In all cases where a Region of Peel Waste Collection Vehicle is required to enter a private property,
the Developer must submit a completed Acknowledgement and Release for Private Property Waste
Collection Form and a completed Application for Private Property Waste Collection Form to the
Region’s Waste Management Division prior to the commencement of Waste Collection. These forms
are locqated in Appendix The Developer must contact the Region’s Waste Management Division at
905-791-9499 to submit the forms and report 90 per cent occupancy, if applicable. These forms are
provided in Appendices 10 and 11, respectively.
For Stacked Townhouses, the Developer must submit with the aforementioned forms written
confirmation that all Owners had received written notification of the location(s) of the Collection
Point(s) and/or Waste Storage Room(s) prior to purchase.

After the required forms and confirmations are received, the Waste Management Division will visit the
Development within five to ten business days to determine if the occupancy level has reached 90 per
cent, if applicable, and if the Development is in compliance with the requirements of this manual. The
Waste Management Division will determine, at its sole discretion, if the Development is in compliance
with this manual and if approved will authorize Waste Collection Services to commence within ten to
fifteen business days from the date that the Waste Management Division approves final clearance for
the Development.




                                       REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                             STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #15

2.0 GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

     The design requirements listed below apply to all categories of Developments.

3.0 
   a) Internal roadways must be constructed of a hard surface material, such as asphalt, concrete or
      lockstone, and designed to support a minimum of 35 tonnes, the weight of a fully loaded
      Waste Collection Vehicle.

   b) Road layouts shall be designed to permit a Waste Collection Vehicle to drive forward without
      reversing for Waste Collection. Where the requirement for a road layout permitting forward
      movement of a Waste Collection Vehicle cannot be met, a Cul-de-sac or a T-turnaround shall
      be provided in accordance with the specifications shown in Appendices 2 and 3, respectively.

   c) All roads shall be designed to have a minimum width of 6 metres.

   d) The Turning Radius from the centre line must be a minimum of 13 metres on all turns.

   e) The maximum grade permitted along the Waste Collection Vehicle access route is 8 per cent.

   f) In a situation where a Waste Collection Vehicle must reverse, the maximum back-up distance
      is 15 metres.

   g) The Waste Collection Vehicle shall not be permitted to back-up onto a municipal road
      allowance.

   h) All Dwelling Units in a Development must receive the same method of Waste Collection.


SINGLE DETACHED DWELLINGS, SEMI-DETACHED DWELLINGS,
TOWNHOUSES AND MULTI-RESIDENTAL COMPLEXES UP TO SIX
DWELLING UNITS
This section applies to Single Detached Dwellings, Semi-Detached Dwellings, Townhouses and MultiResidential Complexes with up to six Dwelling Units. Curbside Garbage, Recyclable Materials, Bulky
Items, Source Separated Organics and Yard Waste collection will be provided to these types of
Developments subject to the Developer demonstrating compliance with the requirements of Section and set out below.

2.0 a) Each Dwelling Unit’s Collection Point must be at least 3 square metres, or 32 square feet in
       order to provide sufficient space for the placement of Carts: maximum one (1) large Garbage
       Cart or Recycling Cart (360 litres or 79 Imperial gallons) and one (1) Source Separated
       Organics Cart (100 litres or 21 Imperial gallons), overflow Waste (i.e. additional bags), Yard
       Waste and Bulky Items.

    b) Each Dwelling Unit within a Development must have its own identifiable Collection Point.
       See Appendix 9 for an example of a Collection Point.




                                         REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                               STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #16

c) The Collection Point must be located along the curb, adjacent to the driveway, and must be
   directly accessible to the Waste Collection Vehicle and free of obstructions such as parked
   cars.

The use of Common Collection Areas for Single-Detached Dwellings, Semi-Detached Dwellings,
Townhouses and Multi-Residential Complexes up to six Dwelling Units is not permitted.



4.0  MULTI-RESIDENTIAL COMPLEXES WITH MORE THAN SIX
     DWELLING UNITS AND STACKED TOWNHOUSES

This section applies to Multi-Residential Complexes with more than six Dwelling Units and to Stacked
Townhouses. The collection of Garbage, Recyclable Materials and Bulky Items will be provided to
these types of Developments. The Developer must demonstrate compliance with the requirements set
out in this section and Section 2.0 in their Site Plan submission.
The design of these Developments must include features that make the Set-out of Recyclable Materials
as convenient to each Occupant as that for Garbage.

Multi-Residential Complexes and Stacked Townhouses must supply Front-End Bins for Garbage
Collection. Recycling Carts or Front-End bins for Recyclable Materials will be provided by the
Region.



4.1 Design Requirements

The following design requirements apply to all Multi-Residential Complexes with more than six
Dwelling Units and to Stacked Townhouses.
  a) Recyclable Materials must not be compacted.
  b) If a chute system is used then separate chutes must be provided for Garbage and Recyclable
     Materials or a single chute can be used if equipped with an automated mechanical separation
     system to direct Garbage and Recyclable Materials into separate Front-End Bins.
  c) A Concealed Collection Point on Private Property must be provided. The Concealed Collection
     Point must have direct and safe access that does not require the Waste Collection Vehicle to back
     onto a Municipal Road following collection. See Appendix 1 for Waste Collection Vehicle
     dimensions and Appendices 2 and 3 for minimum turnaround requirements.
  d) A minimum 18 metre straight head-on approach to the Collection Point is required. This approach
     is to be level and solid (Max. 2% slope) and the same width as the Collection Point.





                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #17

  e) A minimum clear height of 7.5 metres from the concrete pad must be provided at the Collection
     Point. The clear height of 7.5 metres must be free of obstructions such as sprinkler systems, ducts,
     balconies, wires and trees.
  f) Outside the Collection Point, a clear height of 4.4 metres from the top of the access road must be
     provided along the Waste Collection Vehicle access and egress route. The clear height of 4.4
     metres must be free of obstructions such as sprinkler systems, ducts, balconies, wires and trees.
  g) The Collection Point should be designed with sufficient area to eliminate the need for property
     management staff to Jockey Front-End Bins to make them accessible to the Waste Collection
     Vehicle.
  h) The minimum width of the Collection Point must be 3 metres for each Front-End Bin. The
     minimum depth of the Collection Point must be 2 metres for a 3-cubic yard Front-End Bin and 3
     metres for 4 and 6-cubic yard Front-End Bins. Please refer to Appendix 7 for bin dimensions.
     

However, where these requirements cannot be met, reliance on property management staff to
facilitate Waste Collection will be considered at the Commissioner’s discretion, subject to the
following conditions:
  1. the driver is not required to exit the Waste Collection Vehicle to facilitate collection; 
  2. property management staff is responsible for Jockeying of Front-End Bins during collection;
  3. the Region will not be responsible for emptying bins that are inaccessible to the Waste
     Collection Vehicle; and
  4. property management staff must be visible to Waste Collection Vehicle on approach to
     the site, otherwise the Waste Collection Vehicle will not enter the site.


The Collection Point including the number and size of Front-End Bin(s) to be used for Garbage
and the number, size and type of Recycling Receptacle(s) (Front-End Bin or Cart) are to be clearly
shown and labelled on drawings (e.g. Site Plan, ground floor plan, etc.). The drawings must also
show the Waste Collection Vehicle’s route through the Development and the radius of every turn
must be labelled. See Appendices 14 and 15 for sample drawings.


4.1.1 Garbage and Recycling Receptacle Requirements

Multi-Residential Complexes and Stacked Townhouses with less than 60 Dwelling Units must Set-out
Front-End Bins for Garbage and Carts for Recyclable Material. Multi-Residential Complexes and
Stacked Townhouses with 60 or more Dwelling Units must Set-out Front-End Bins for Garbage and
Front-End Bins for Recyclable Material.
Table 1 below, can be used to calculate the storage capacity for Garbage and Recyclable Materials that
Multi-Residential Complexes and Stacked Townhouses require.

Table 1: Maximum Number of Dwelling Units per Front-End Bin for Garbage by Bin Size

Type of Bin
Compacted
Non-compacted

3-Cubic Yards
54
18

4-Cubic Yards
72
24


                                             REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                    STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #18

6-Cubic Yards
N/A
36

For example, a Multi-Residential Complex, or Stacked Townhouse with 144 Dwelling Units would
require three 3-cubic yard Front-End Bins for Garbage with a Compactor, or six 4-cubic yard Garbage
Front-End Bins for Garbage without a Compactor.
Table 2 below, can be used to calculate the storage capacity for Recyclable Materials that MultiResidential Complexes and Stacked Townhouses require.

Table 2: Maximum Number of Dwelling Units per Front-End Bin for Recyclable Materials by Bin Size

Type of Bin
Non-Compacted

3-Cubic Yards
45

4-Cubic Yards
60

6-Cubic Yards
90

For example, a Multi-Residential Complex or Stacked Townhouse with 121 Dwelling Units would
require three 3-cubic yard Front-End Bins or two 4-cubic yard Front-End Bins for Recyclable
Material.
Due to their size, 6-cubic yard Front-End Bins used to store Garbage or Recyclable Material are only
to be used for Multi-Residential Complexes and Stacked Townhouses where Garbage and Recycling
Receptacles are to be stored outdoors. Each 6-cubic yard Front-End Bin is to be permanently located at
a Collection Point accessible to the Front-End Waste Collection Vehicle.
Multi-Residential Complexes and Stacked Townhouses proposing less than 60 Dwelling Units will
receive one Recycling Cart for every 7 Dwelling Units.
The Front-End Bins must be Set-out within a Concealed Collection Point or an Indoor Collection
Point. An area adjacent to the Concealed Collection Point or Indoor Collection Point must be provided
for the Set-out of Recycling Carts.

4.1.2 Concealed Collection Point Requirements

The Concealed Collection Point must be of sufficient area to accommodate the number of Front-End
Bins and Recycling Carts required for the Development and also to accommodate the Set-out and
storage of Bulky Items. It must be accessible to occupants and the Waste Collection Vehicle. The
design requirements for Concealed Collection Points are listed below.
  a) A permanent three-sided structure without a roof.
  b) A Concealed Collection Point for a single Front-End Bin requires a 3-metre opening.
  c) A Concealed Collection Point for two Front-End Bins with two gates requires a 6-metre opening.
  d) A Concealed Collection Point for two Front-End Bins with four gates requires an 8-metre opening.
  e) A Concealed Collection Point requires a lockable gate. Hinged Gates on a Concealed Collection
     Point must swing open to a minimum 135 degrees. Sliding gates are also permitted. Gates must be
     capable of being secured in an open position.
  f) A Concealed Collection Point requires a minimum of 10 square metres for the Set-out of Bulky
     Items. The Concealed Collection Point for Bulky Items can be separated from the Concealed
     Collection Point for Front-End Bins.



                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #19

  g) A solid, level (Max. 2% slope) and reinforced concrete pad must be provided. The concrete pad
     must be of sufficient strength to prevent differential settlement and/or cracking that would affect
     Waste Collection.
  h) Bollards or a concrete curb must also be installed at the rear of the Concealed Collection Point to
     protect the structural wall from damage when Front-End Bins are picked up, or returned in place,
     by the Waste Collection Vehicle.

See Appendix 5 for a sample drawing that illustrates these requirements. Refer to Appendices 6, 7, and
8 for Cart and Front-End Bin dimensions.

4.1.3 Waste Storage Room Requirements

A Waste Storage Room must be of sufficient area to accommodate the required number of Front-End
Bins and/or Recycling Carts required for the Development. In addition, a minimum of 10 square
metres must be provided for the storage of Bulky Items.

See Appendices 6 and 7 for Cart and Front-End Bin dimensions, respectively. See Appendix 15 for a
sample drawing of a Waste Storage Room that illustrates these requirements.

4.1.4 Indoor Collection Point Requirements

The requirements for an Indoor Collection Point are as follows:
  a) a solid, level (Max. 2% slope) and reinforced concrete pad. The concrete pad must be of necessary
     strength to prevent differential settlement and/or cracking that would affect Waste Collection.
  b) a minimum width of 6 metres for the storage of multiple Front-End Bins; and
  c) an unobstructed distance of a minimum of 18 metres must be provided to enable the Waste
     Collection Vehicle to wholly enter the Indoor Collection Point.

See Appendix 15 for a sample drawing that illustrates these requirements

4.2 Specific Requirements for Stacked Townhouses

Stacked Townhouses with less than 60 Dwelling Units must Set-out Front-End Bins for Garbage and
Recycling Carts for Recyclable Materials. Stacked Townhouse Developments with 60 or more
Dwelling Units must Set-out Front-End Bins for Garbage and Front-End Bins for Recyclable
Materials. Additional requirements for Stacked Townhouses are as follows:

a) the maximum walking distance from a Dwelling Unit to the closest Concealed Collection Point
   must be less than 100 metres; and





                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #20

b) the Developer will be required to inform prospective Owner(s) of the location of the Concealed
   Collection Point(s) in Agreements of Purchase and Sale, and in the Condominium Declaration and
   Description.

Refer to Appendix 13: Sample Drawing of a Stacked Townhouse Site Plan for further clarification.
The Developer, Property Manager, Owner, or agent thereof, must disclose in writing to a prospective
buyer of a Dwelling Unit within the Development, the location of the Waste Storage Room(s) and/or
Collection Point(s) and the requirements of the prospective buyer regarding Waste storage and Set-out.
The wording of the notice shall be as follows:
Waste Collection: All Buildings/Units
“Purchasers are advised that a Concealed Collection Point for Waste is located adjacent to the
[Feature A] and is intended to accommodate all residential Waste from [Buildings X to Y],
inclusive only. Purchasers of units within the Development described above are advised that
transporting Waste to the Waste Storage Room or Collection Point is the sole responsibility of
the occupants residing in the subject buildings/units. Purchasers and subsequent occupants will
be required to dispose of all Waste to the Collection Point on-site.”
The Developer must submit to the Region, with a request to commence Waste Collection Services,
written confirmation that all Owners had received written notification of the location(s) of a Collection
Point(s) and/or Waste Storage Room(s) prior to purchase.
Refer to Section 1.3, Request to Commence Waste Collection Service for clarification of the
requirements to register for the Region’s Waste Collection services.


5.0 MIXED USE BUILDINGS

For Dwelling Units within Mixed Use Buildings, the Region will provide collection of Recyclable
Materials, Bulky Items, Garbage and Yard Waste. A private Waste Collection company will be
required for Industrial, Commercial, or Institutional Waste. Refer to Section 6 for requirements
pertaining to Mixed Use Buildings located in BIAs.
To be eligible for collection of Residential Waste, Developers of Mixed Use Buildings must have the
same design features as other Multi-Residential Complexes with the same number of Dwelling Units
as described in Sections 4.0 - 4.1.4.
Mixed Use Buildings with less than 60 Dwelling Units must Set-out Front-End Bins for Garbage and
Recycling Carts for Recyclable Materials. Mixed Use Buildings with 60 or more Dwelling Units must
Set-out Front-End Bins for Garbage and Front-End Bins for Recyclable Materials.
Residential Waste must be separated from Industrial, Commercial, or Institutional Waste. Collection
Points for Residential and Industrial, Commercial, or Institutional Waste must be separated and clearly
shown on Site Plan drawings. See Appendix 15 for a sample drawing.




                                        REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                              STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #21

6.0 BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREAS

Residential Units, Multi-Residential Complexes, Stacked Townhouses and some Institutions located
within BIAs will be provided with the Region’s Waste Collection services, subject to compliance with
the applicable requirements set out in Sections 2.0 - 4.0, and 7.0.
Small Businesses located within BIAs can choose to receive the Region’s collection services for
Recyclable Materials, Bulky Items, Garbage and Yard Waste, subject to satisfying the requirements set
out in this section and Sections 2.0, 4.0 and 4.1.2, or may elect to use the services of a private Waste
Collection company.

Mixed Used Buildings located within BIAs which include a Small Business(es) requesting the
Region’s Waste Collection services must provide the same design features as other Multi-Residential
Complexes with the same number of Dwelling Units, as described in Sections 4.0 - 4.1.4, and provide
one Collection Point of sufficient area to store Garbage and Recycling Receptacles, Bulky Items and
Yard Waste from Dwelling Units and Small Businesses.
It is recommended that a Developer, or owner, or agent thereof undertaking a Development or reDevelopment within a BIA and intend to receive Waste Collection Services from the Region, contact
the Waste Management Division by Electronic mail at ZZGWasteCollectionDesignStandardsInquiries@peelregion.ca to conduct a pre-Site Plan submission consultation.




                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #22

7.0 INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

This section applies to Institutional Developments which include Long-Term Care Institutions,
Schools and Places of Worship, and Schools.
Waste Collection services for Institutional Developments is dependent on location. Contact the Waste
Management Division by Electronic mail at
ZZGWasteCollectionDesignStandardsInquiries@peelregion.ca to verify eligibility.
Institutional Developments that are eligible to receive the Region’s Waste Collection services must
comply with the requirements listed in Sections 2.0, 4.0, 4.1.2, 4.13, and 4.1.4.


7.1 Long-Term Care Institutions

Long-Term Care Institutions designed to accommodate less than 60 Persons must Set-out Front-End
Bins for Garbage and Recycling Carts for Recyclable Materials. Long-Term Care Institutions designed
to accommodate more than 60 Persons must Set-out Front-End Bins for Garbage and Front-End Bins
for Recyclable Materials.
Table 3 and 4 below, can be used to calculate the Front-End Bin storage capacity for the collection of
Garbage and Recyclable Materials:
Table 3: Maximum Number of Persons per Front-End Bin for Recyclable Materials by Bin Size

Type of Bin
Non-compacted

3-Cubic Yards
60

4-Cubic Yards
80

6-Cubic Yards
100

Table 4: Maximum Number of Persons per Front-End Bin for Garbage by Bin Size

Type of Bin
Compacted
Non-compacted

3-Cubic Yards
90
36

4-Cubic Yards
120
48

6-Cubic Yards
N/A
60

For example, a Long-Term Care Institution designed to accommodate 182 Persons will require two 3cubic yard Front-End Bins for Garbage if it is compacted or four 4-cubic yard Front-End Bins for
Garbage if a Compactor is not used. In addition, the Long-Term Care Institution will require three 3cubic yard or two 6-cubic yard Front-End Bins for Recyclable Materials.
Due to their size, 6-cubic yard Front-End Bins are only to be used for Developments where Waste is to
be stored in a Concealed Collection Point. Each 6-cubic yard Front-End Bin is to be permanently
located at a Collection Point accessible to the Waste Collection Vehicle.
Long-Term Care Institutions with less than 60 Persons will be provided with one Recycling Cart for
every 7 Persons.
Hazardous Waste and Biomedical Waste are not to be Set-out for Waste Collection. Hazardous Waste
and Biomedical Waste must be collected by a private Waste Collection company. Set-out of
Hazardous Waste and Biomedical Waste for Residential Waste Collection may result in the suspension
of Waste Collection.







                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #23

7.2 Schools

Waste Collection for Schools is dependent on location. Contact the Waste Management Division by
Electronic mail at ZZG-WasteCollectionDesignStandardsInquiries@peelregion.ca to verify eligibility.
Recyclable Materials will be collected from schools that are eligible to receive the Region’s Waste
Collection services. The collection of Garbage is required through a private Waste Collection
company.
The number of Recycling Carts or Front-End Bins required will be dependent on the total number of
persons, including students, faculty and staff, that the school is designed to accommodate. Table 5
below, can be used to calculate the Front-End Bin storage capacity for Recyclable Materials.
Table 5: Maximum Number of Persons per Front-End Bin for Recyclable Materials by Bin Size

Type of Bin
3-Cubic Yards
Non-compacted 600

4-Cubic Yards
800

6-Cubic Yards
1200

For example, a school designed to accommodate a total of 750 students, faculty, and staff will require
two 3-cubic yard Front-End Bins or one 4-cubic yard Front-End Bin for Recyclable Materials.
Due to their size, 6-cubic yard Front-End Bins are only to be used where Waste is to be stored in a
Concealed Collection Point. Each 6-cubic yard Front-End Bin is to be permanently located at a Waste
Collection Point accessible to the Waste Collection Vehicle.
For schools designed to accommodate less than 600 students, faculty, and staff, one Recycling Cart is
required for every 150 persons.


7.3 Places of Worship

The Region’s Waste Collection services for Places of Worship is dependent on location. Contact the
Waste Management Division by Electronic mail at
ZZGWasteCollectionDesignStandardsInquiries@peelregion.ca to verify eligibility.
Eligible Places of Worship must comply with the requirements below.
  a) Places of Worship designed to accommodate less than 450 persons must Set-out Front-End Bins
     for Garbage and one Recycling Cart for Recyclable Materials for every 75 persons. See Appendix
     8 for Cart Dimensions.
  b) Places of Worship designed to accommodate more than 450 persons must Set-out Front-End Bins
     for both Garbage and Recyclable Materials.





                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #24

Table 6 and 7 below, can be used to calculate the Front-End Bin storage capacity for Garbage and
Recyclable Materials at Places of Worship.

Table 6: Maximum Number of Persons per Front-End Bin for Garbage by Bin Size

Type of Bin
Compacted
Non-compacted

3-Cubic Yards
90
36

4-Cubic Yards
120
48

6-Cubic Yards
N/A
60

Table 7: Maximum Number of Persons per Front-End Bin for Recyclable Materials by Bin Size

Type of Bin
Non-compacted

7.5

3-Cubic Yards
450

4-Cubic Yards
600

6-Cubic Yards
More than 600

Other Institutions

Please contact the Waste Management Division by Electronic mail at
ZZG-WasteCollectionDesignStandardsInquiries@peelregion.ca to verify eligibility for
Collection Services.





                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #25

Waste

APPENDIX 1: WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE ILLUSTRATIONS

4.09m

Fully-Automated Waste Collection Vehicle

5.79m in height with the forks extended when tipping

11.93m

13m

11.93m

2.60m

Radius = 13m

2.60m

Turning Radius

Note: This Waste Collection Vehicle will only be used for Curbside Waste Collection. Drawings are not to scale. These are approximate dimensions.
Actual dimensions may vary depending on the make and model of vehicles used by Region of Peel’s Waste Collection Contractors, which vary from
time to time.




                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #26

4.31m

6.15m

Front-End Bin Loading Waste Collection Vehicle

9.85m

13m

9.85m

2.77m

Radius = 13m

Turning Radius
2.77m
Note:
    This Waste Collection Vehicle will only be used for Multi-Residential Complexes, Stacked Townhouses, and select Institutional     
    complexes.     
    Drawings are not to scale. These are approximate dimensions. Actual dimensions may vary depending on the make and model of vehicles used  
    by Region of Peel’s

Waste Collection Contractors, which vary from time to time.





                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #27

3.81m

Rear Loading Waste Collection Vehicle

11.48m

13m

11.48m

2.71m

Radius = 13m

Turning Radius = 2.71 m

Note:
Drawings are not to scale. Actual dimensions may vary depending on the make and model of vehicles used by Region of Peel’s Waste Collection
Contractors, which vary from time to time.





                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #28

Fully-Automated Side-Loading Cart Waste Collection Vehicle

3.75 m

*4.77 m in
height with
the arm
extended

10.84 m

13 m

10.84 m

2.62 m

Radius = 13 m

2.62 m

Turning Radius
Note:

This Waste Collection Vehicle will be used for Curbside Waste Collection, Multi-Residential Complexes, Stacked Townhouses, and select Institutional
complexes. Drawings are not to scale. Actual dimensions may vary depending on the make and model of vehicles used by Region of Peel’s Waste
Collection Contractors, which vary from time to time.



                                                REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                       STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #29

APPENDIX 2: CUL-DE-SAC SPECIFICATIONS

Minimum Requirement for Regional Waste
Collection Vehicles

Waste Collection Vehicle
11.93 m x 2.60 m

Note:
Drawings are not to scale.

6M

                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                   STANDARDS MANUAL



Page #30

APPENDIX 3: “T” - TURNAROUND SPECIFICATIONS

6M

Minimum Requirement for Regional Waste Collection
Vehicles

Waste Collection Vehicle
11.93 m x 2.60 m

Note:
Drawings are not to scale.

6M

                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL

Page #31

APPENDIX 4: INDOOR WASTE COLLECTION POINT SPECIFICATIONS
OPTION 1: 6-METRE WIDE
COLLECTION POINT

Notes

OPTION 2: 9-METRE WIDE
COLLECTION POINT

Concrete Pad
Recycling cart
Front-End Bin

The concrete apron
must extend a
minimum of 1.5
metres in length
outside of the
Concealed Waste
Collection Point to
accommodate the
front wheels of the
Waste Collection
Vehicle.


18 metre head on
approach is
required for the
Waste Collection
Vehicle to wholly
enter the Indoor
Collection Point

Note:
Drawings are not to
scale.

                                            REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                   STANDARDS MANUAL

Page #32

APPENDIX 5: CONCEALED COLLECTION POINT SPECIFICATIONS
Notes
Bollard

ALTERNATIVE 1

ALTERNATIVE 2

(WITH TWO GATES)

(WITH FOUR GATES)

Concrete Pad
Recycling Cart
Front-end Bin

Receptacles stored
outdoors must be
concealed.

Gates must swing
out a min. 135
degrees and must be
secured in an open
position.

The concrete apron
must extend a
minimum of 1.5
metres in length
outside of the
Concealed
Collection Point to
accommodate the
front wheels of the
Waste Collection
Vehicle.

Note:
Drawings are not to scale.

                                              REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                     STANDARDS MANUAL

Page #33

APPENDIX 6: GARBAGE AND RECYCLING RECEPTACLE DIMENSIONS
RECYCLING RECEPTACLES
Receptacle Type
3-Cubic Yard Bin
4-Cubic Yard Bin
6-Cubic Yard Bin
Small Cart*
Medium Cart *
Large Cart*
BIA Cart**

Width (metres)
2.03
2.03
2.03
0.51
0.64
0.69
0.67

Height (metres)
1.26
1.29
1.38
0.97
1.12
1.19
1.10

Depth (metres)
1.07
2.01
2.03
0.56
0.71
0.89
0.854

GARBAGE RECEPTACLES
Receptacle Type
3-Cubic Yard Bin
4-Cubic Yard Bin
6-Cubic Yard Bin

Small Cart*
Medium Cart*
Large Cart*
BIA Cart**

Width (metres)
2.03
2.03
2.03
0.51
0.64
0.69
0.67

Height (metres)
1.26
1.29
1.38
0.97
1.12
1.19
1.10

Depth (metres)
1.07
2.01
2.03
0.56
0.71
0.89
0.854

ORGANICS RECEPTACLE
Receptacle Type
Curbside Organics Cart*

Width (metres)
0.51

Height (metres)
0.99

Depth (metres)
0.64

Note:
These are approximate dimensions. Actual dimensions may vary depending on model and manufacturer.
*Receptacles are only available to Residential Units receiving Curbside Collection
**Only available for select Multi-Residential Complexes and Institutions

                                                 REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                        STANDARDS MANUAl

Page #34

APPENDIX 7: FRONT-END GARBAGE AND RECYCLING BINS
3-Cubic Yard

4-Cubic Yard

1.29m

1.26m

2.03m

2.03m

1.07m

3-yard inside storage area bin
1.26 m high, 2.03 m wide, 1.07 m deep

2.01m

4-yard inside storage area bin
1.29 m high, 2.03 m wide, 2.01 m deep

6-Cubic Yard

6-Cubic Yard Slant

1.38 m

1.38m

2.03m

2.03 m

2.03m

2.03 m

6-yard inside storage area bin
1.38 m high, 2.03 m wide, 2.03 m deep

Due to their size, 6-cubic yard Front-End Bins are only to be used for Multi-Residential Developments
where Waste is to be stored externally in a Concealed Collection Point.

Note:
*3- & 4-cubic yard bins include casters.
**Garbage receptacle model and dimensions may vary depending on model and manufacturer.
***Drawing is not to scale

                                                     REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                            STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #35

APPENDIX 8: CART DIMENSIONS
CARTS USED FOR CURBSIDE WASTE COLLETCION

Small Garbage Cart

Small Recycling Cart

Medium Garbage Cart

Large Garbage Cart

Medium Recycling Cart

Organics Cart

Large Recycling Cart

CARTS USED FOR WASTE COLLECTION FROM BIA AND MULTI-RESIDENTIAL
COMPLEXES

BIA Garbage Cart*:
Height 110 cm (3.6 ft), Width 67 cm (2.2 ft)
and Length 85 cm (2.8 ft)

BIA Recycling Cart*:
Height 110 cm (3.6 ft), Width 67 cm (2.2 ft)
and Length 85 cm (2,8 ft)

Note:
These are approximate dimensions. Actual dimensions may vary depending on model and manufacturer.

*BIA carts will be available for select Multi-Residential Complexes and Institutions.

          

                                                     REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                            STANDARDS MANUAL

Page #36

APPENDIX 9: WASTE COLLECTION POINT EXAMPLES
COLLECTION POINT FOR SINGLE-DETACHED, SEMI-DETACHED, TOWNHOUSES AND
MULTI-RESIDENTIAL COMPLEXES UP TO SIX UNITS DWELLING UNITS

Collection Point must be at least 3 square metres (32 square feet) in order to provide sufficient space for the
placement of two Carts: maximum one (1) large Garbage or Recycling (360 litres or 79 Imperial gallons) Cart and one
(1) Source Separated Organics (100 litres or 21imperial gallons) Cart, overflow Waste (i.e. additional bags), Yard
Waste Receptacles and Bulky Items. In addition, a minimum 1 metre (3ft.) space between each Cart must be
provided.

OUTDOOR CONCELAED WASTE COLLECTION POINT FOR
MULTI-RESIDENTIAL COMPLEXES, STACKED TOWNHOUSES AND MIXED USE BUILDINGS

Concealed Waste Collection Points must have a level and solid (Max. 2% slope) concrete pad. The concrete pad
should extend a minimum of 1.5 metres in length outside of the collection point to accommodate the front wheels of
the waste collection vehicle. All Concealed Waste Collection Point specifications can be found in section 4.1


                                                    REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                           STANDARDS MANUAL

Page #37

APPENDIX 10: ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND RELEASE FORM FOR
PRIVATE PROPERTY WASTE COLLECTION

Acknowledgement and Release for Private
Property Waste Collection
 New Submission

 Renewal

1. In consideration of the Regional Municipality of Peel (hereinafter the "Region") providing a waste collection

service, __________________

(hereinafter the "Owner") being the registered Owner of

(hereinafter the "Lands") shall:

a. Permit the Region and its employees, Contractors and authorized agents entry onto the land for purposes of providing waste
collection; and

b. Release, save harmless and indemnify the Region from all actions, causes of actions, damages, liability, fines, proceedings,
claims and demands arising as a result of the Region and its employees, contractors and authorized agents utilizing the Lands,
including but not limited to, the driveway, ramp, loading and parking areas of the Lands for purposes of providing waste collection save
and except any claims or damages attributable to the negligence of the Region or those for whom it is in law responsible.

2. It is herein acknowledged by the Owner that the Region's Waste Collection from the lands is conditional on:

a. The Owner providing free and clear access to a collection point determined satisfactory by the Region's Commissioner of Public
Works for these purposes. The Owner's proposed route of access for collection purposes as set out on a plot plan of the building and
parking lot which is attached hereto;

b. The Owner utilizing Waste containers approved by the Region’s Commissioner of Public Works;

c. The Owner maintaining all compaction equipment containers in good and operable condition including regularly cleaning and sanitizing
containers;

d. All designated Waste being Set-out for collection in Region approved containers no later than 7:00 a.m. on the designated collection
day.

V-12-227 2014/08

                                      
      
                                                      REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                             STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #38

e. The Owner or its agents moving containers during collection if so required. The Region will not be responsible for emptying containers
that are inaccessible to the Waste Collection Vehicle;

f. The Owner maintaining Concealed Collection Points in a safe, clean, sanitary, odour free and tidy condition, including cleaning and
sanitizing enclosures on a weekly basis or more frequently as required. Garbage and Recyclable Materials are to be placed in
appropriate containers. Cardboard is to be broken down and placed within appropriate recycling containers or bundled
according to the Region's Waste Collection By-law;

g. The Collection Point being signed, kept cleared of snow and de-iced during winter months;

h. The collection enclosure gates must be unlocked, open, and secured by 7:00 a.m. on collection day.

i.Gates should be securely mounted on steel bollards or an approved equal. Gates must include stoppers, a latch and gate wheels, and
should be designed to prevent sagging.

j.The Collection Point being signed, kept clear of parked vehicles, and bulky items (all as defined in the Region’s Waste Collection Bylaw);

k. The Concealed Collection Point width must be sufficient for the Waste Collection Vehicle to empty and return containers to the
enclosure without requiring Jockeying of Front-End Bins. In order to accomplish this, a minimum distance of 0.9 meters should be kept
between the container and enclosure side walls.

l.Bollards or concrete curb should be installed at the rear of the enclosure to protect the enclosure wall from damage when containers are
picked up or returned in place by the Waste Collection Vehicle.

m. The Owner notifying and obtaining approval from the Region prior to making any changes that will affect waste collection including
but not limited to moving or making changes to Collection Points and adding or changing Carts;

n. The Owner ensuring that all tenants or unit owners have equally convenient and safe access to Recycling and Garbage
Receptacles and/or systems;
o. The Owner conducting daily examination of Recycling and Garbage 

Receptacles to:

i. correct and/or prevent overflow problems; (i.e. Garbage

and/or Bulky Items)

ii. to remove contaminants from Recycling Receptacles

iii. to correct and/or prevent Recyclable Materials from being mixed with Garbage.

V-12-227 2014/08



                                                         REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                                STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #39

p. The Owner attaching and maintaining labels provided by the Region to Recycling Receptacles;

q. The Owner placing and maintaining information posters provided by the Region describing the Region’s Garbage and recycling
program in common areas, including chute rooms, drop-off locations, lobby, mail room and laundry room of the complex;
r. The Owner distributing reusable recycling bags provided by the Region to all tenants or unit owners and contacting the Region for
replacements as required;

s. The Owner notifying tenants or unit owners, in writing, of the current recycling program within the complex. Notice must be
kept up to date, redistributed regularly and be provided to all new tenants or unit owners; and, the Owner including the requirement to
recycle in all tenant leases or condominium packages.

3. The Owner further acknowledges the Region's Waste Collection service is limited to:

a. Waste Collection service on such days as designated by the Region's Commissioner of Public Works;

b. Garbage, Recyclable Materials, Source Separated Organics, Yard Waste And Bulky Items (all as defined in the Region's Waste
Collection By-law) , as designated by the Region's Commissioner of Public Works;

4. The Owner further acknowledges that the Region shall not collect Garbage generated from building renovations, apartment fires and parking lot
sweepings. All materials to be collected must be in accordance with the Region's Waste Collection By-law.

5. This Agreement may be terminated immediately by the Region, upon the Owner failing to perform or comply with any of the conditions or
restrictions as provided for herein. If any of the conditions or restrictions are not complied with, the Region shall not be required to provide waste
collection to the Owner. The Region shall send a notice of termination to the Owner within 48 hours of the termination of the Agreement. The
Owner hereby agrees that they shall not make any claims or demands for costs or damages as a result of the termination.

6. The Owner may terminate this Agreement upon providing the Region with 60 days written notice of termination.

7. Any notice which the Region or the Owner is required to give pursuant to this Agreement shall be given at:

Owner ____________________________________________________________________________________________

Region:

The Regional Municipality of Peel
Commissioner of Public Works
10 Peel Centre Drive, Suite A
Brampton, Ontario L6T 4B9
V-12-227 2014/08

                                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL



Page #40

APPENDIX 13: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A STACKED TOWNHOUSE SITE
PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS

This Site Plan is an excellent example that meets all Waste Collection standards for Stacked Townhouse
Developments. The Waste Collection Vehicle route with the Turning Radius is clearly shown on the Site Plan.
A centralized Concealed Collection Point has been designed in accordance with this manual.
Concealed Collection Point
Turning Radius labelled

For Garbage and Recycling collected outdoors, a Set-out area comprised of a
level and solid (Max. 2% slope) concrete pad is provided. A minimum of 18
metres of straight head-on approach to the Collection Point is also provided.
Note:
Drawings are not to scale.



                                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL



Page #41

Road width labelled

APPENDIX 13: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A STACKED TOWNHOUSE SITE
PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS
Furthermore, the ground floor plan of the centralized Concealed Collection Point provides the correct number,
type and size of Garbage and Recycling Receptacles required for the number of Dwelling Units in the
Development. The Compactor is also clearly shown on the ground floor plan.
Sufficient space (a minimum of 10
square metres) is provided for the
storage of Bulky Items

Size and type of Garbage and
Recycling Receptacles labelled

Compactor

Waste Building Ground Floor Plan

Chutes

Front Elevation
Note:
Drawings are not to scale.


                                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL



Page #42

APPENDIX 14: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A MULTI-RESIDENTIAL SITE
PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS (INDOOR
WASTE STORAGE ROOM AND CONCEALED COLLECTION POINT)

This Site Plan satisfies all the Waste Collection requirements for a Multi-Residential Complex Development
comprising a 4 story Multi-Residential Complex with 80 Dwelling Units. The Development provides an indoor
Waste Storage Room and a Concealed Collection Point for collection. The vehicle access route, turning
movements and road width are consistently labelled and displayed on the Site Plan drawing.
Collection Point
Turning Radius of 13 m

Waste Collection Vehicle route labelled

A minimum of 18 metre straight head-on approach to the
Collection Point is provided. A detailed drawing is also
provided displaying the number, size and type of
receptacles in the Concealed Collection Point.

Outside gates on the Concealed Collection Point
swings open 135 degrees
Note:
Drawings are not to scale.


                                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL



Page #43

APPENDIX 15: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A MULTI-RESIDENTIAL SITE
PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS (INDOOR
WASTE STORAGE ROOM AND INDOOR COLLECTION POINT)

This Site Plan also provides an excellent example of an indoor Waste Storage Room (in the underground
parking lot) by clearly identifying the type of chute system (bi-sorter) and the number of Garbage and
Recycling Receptacles required.
Bi-sorter chute
system
Compactor

Bulky Item storage
(minimum of 10 sq. m)
m)

In addition, detailed
Waste Collection notes
are provided by the
Developer for
clarifications.

Note:
Drawings are not to scale.


                                                           REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                                  STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #44

APPENDIX 15: SAMPLE DRAWING OF A MULTI-RESIDENTIAL SITE
PLAN THAT MEETS WASTE COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS (INDOOR
WASTE STORAGE ROOM AND INDOOR COLLECTION POINT)

This Mixed Use Development (comprised of 28 stories and 223 total Residential Units) provides an excellent
example of Waste Storage Room and Indoor Collection Point as specified in Section 4.1.2 Waste Storage and
Indoor Collection Point Requirements.

Waste Collection Vehicle
access route with Turning
Radius labelled. A18 m
head-on approach to the
Collection Point is
provided.



                                                               REGION OF PEEL WASTE COLLECTION
                                                                      STANDARDS MANUAL


Page #45

Indoor Collection Point
comprised of a concrete
floor and an overhead door.

Indoor waste storage room displays the number, type and
size of Front-End Bins (five 3-cubic yard bins for Garbage
and Recycling each) required for Residential Waste. In
addition, sufficient space (10 sq. m) is also provided for the
storage of Bulky Items. A tri-sorting chute system with a
Compactor is also shown.



In addition, further supplementary notes are provided for Waste Management addressing all the requirements
such as overhead clearance (7.2), Recyclable Materials are not to be compacted (7.5), Separation of Residential
and Non-Residential Waste (7.6-7.10) and the use of a tri-sorter chute system (7.11).


